---
layout: post
title: "first blog"
date: 2023-03-01
categories: blog
tags: [sample, introduction]
---

Wellcome to my blog


The Dichotomy of Human Nature: Reflections from Literature and Psychology

Based on my thoughts, and also considering the article “Why Boys Become Vicious” and the novel "Lord of the Flies" by William Golding, the ultimate tragedy can be blamed on human nature itself and the world in which we exist.

Nothing is without reason. The reason why the boys show aggressivity, evil, voracity, and all the dark sides of humankind is that even in our society today, people are still affected by nature and instinct. This could be a retrospective from our ancestors or even from when we were still animals. We are still a group of monkeys on the African steppe. The weak are prey to the strong, and natural selection favors the survival of the fittest. In the beginning, males were responsible for hunting and proliferating offspring. They needed to be more courageous and progressive to win in intense competition for courtship. Through greater desire and insatiable greed, they could potentially have more resources and therefore more offspring. These types of behaviors and genes would have predominance in the offspring, thus transmitting these traits over a longer period. That’s why we are often consumed by desire and have some instinctual impulses. Even though we have higher intelligence and are not animals anymore, we are sometimes still controlled by those inborn instincts. For instance, our craving for candies is because, thousands of years ago, we needed fruits like bananas or apples for survival. This leads to a lot of perplexity; we are worried about ourselves. Psychologist Carl Jung had a theory about the Shadow Self, which represents the repressed and unrecognized aspects in an individual's subconscious. These aspects are usually parts of oneself that one is unwilling to acknowledge or confront, such as negative emotions, desires, or impulses. In extreme situations, our primitive nature might be stimulated, just like what happened in "Lord of the Flies," where the primal environment stimulated their instinct for massacre. Normally, we are still human beings, one of the most advanced species in history, the only ones to establish a civilization. There is no need to worry too much about our birthright. As human beings, we also have a lot of precious qualities such as honesty, justice, the spirit of exploration, heroism, fairness, equality, mutual help, cooperation, and compassion.

Just like the popular anime "Zootopia" shows, even though we are animals, we still need to trust each other; we still have a bright side. The Chinese philosophers Meng Zi and Xun Zi debated whether "xìng běn shàn" (human nature is inherently good) or "xìng běn è" (human nature is inherently evil). One group argues that we are born like a blank slate, and only become bad or evil due to negative influences or lack of nurturing and education. Another group argues that human nature is essentially bad, as we are basically animals, and only through good nurturing and education that we can control our desires. Otherwise, if a child left in a forest would become more like an animal rather than a man.

It is clear that in some cases, men are more aggressive, agitated, and impulsive, traits more suited to the physical work of the past rather than the mental work of today. This brings me to the story "The Three-Body Problem" by the Chinese writer and Hugo Award winner Liu Cixin. He depicts a future world where, as people become increasingly gentle, all males are eliminated and replaced by females, who are perceived as more patient and capable of compassionate collaboration. In this world, streets are filled with elegantly dressed and graceful females, and males have also adopted female clothing and mannerisms. This is not just science fiction; part of it could be our future. It's a wonderful world where everyone is nice and polite, but there's one problem: if faced with an enemy, we might struggle to fight back. The writer suggests that because we have completely lost aspects of aggressiveness and self-defense capabilities, we lose a war with aliens, even though we had a chance to win, but were defeated by our empathy for the enemy. Therefore, it is very clear that it is also important to have a central position between barbaric and civilized. Don't be overly barbaric, nor excessively civilized.

In conclusion, the reason certain things happen, but we need to stay true to our conscience and resist harmful desires. Some desires may bring temporary pleasure but can lead to greater and more lasting pain. This is why we are not mere animals. We stand atop the food chain through our most important skill - cooperation. Consequently, we learn to collaborate with others, to be mindful of their emotions, and to control our own. We should always remember what has brought us all this.

